1. What is the fastest component of a computer memory?
Registers

2. Why is modern computer memory comprised of a multilevel (hierarchical) structure?
To balance speed, size, and cost. Faster memory is more expensive and has less capacity, so a hierarchy optimizes performance by using smaller, faster memory (e.g., cache) closer to the CPU and larger, slower memory (e.g., RAM, HDD) further away.

3. What is the slowest kind of computer storage device?
Magnetic Tape

4. Name the hierarchy of the memory of modern computers, from the smallest to the largest memory size.
Registers
L1 Cache
L2 Cache
L3 Cache
RAM
SSD
HDD
Magnetic Tape

5. What is the smallest unit of information in computers?
Bit

6. Why have humans chosen the binary numbers (0 and 1) to represent data in computers?
Binary numbers are used because they are easy to represent with physical systems (such as voltage levels or magnetic states) that have two distinct states (on/off, true/false), making them reliable and efficient for digital computing.

7. What is the typical speed of contemporary computer memory registers?
Typically around 1 nanosecond or less for access time.

8. What decade was the first digital computer built?
1940s

9. What decade was the first general-purpose digital computer built?
1940s

10. What is a fixed program computer?
A computer designed to perform a specific set of instructions or operations that cannot be changed, making it unable to execute general-purpose programs.

11. Name an example of modern-day fixed program computer.
Calculator or digital watch

12. What is the difference between declarative and imperative knowledge?

Declarative Knowledge: Describes facts or information about something (what is true or false).
Imperative Knowledge: Describes instructions on how to perform an action or task (how to do something).
13. Classify the following statements as imperative or declarative knowledge.
a. The letter B is the second letter in the English alphabet.
Declarative

b. Overcast sky conditions are more likely to cause rain.
Declarative

c. Submit your answer to this question in subfolder 2 of quiz folder of your GitHub project.
Imperative

d. Once done with this quiz, do not forget to commit your responses to your repository.
Imperative

e. You must answer all questions in this quiz to get a full grade.
Imperative

14. What class of human knowledge do algorithms belong to?
Imperative knowledge

15. What is the name of the first digital computer?
ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer)

16. Name a computer programming language whose evolution and popularity is tightly coupled with the field of Bioinformatics.
Perl

17. Name a computer programming language whose evolution and popularity is tightly coupled with the field of Numerical Computing, Atmospheric Science, Plasma Sciences, and Aerospace Engineering, among others.
Fortran

18. Name the five major components of a modern digital computer.
Central Processing Unit (CPU)
Memory (RAM)
Input Devices
Output Devices
Storage Devices
19. Name an example of a fixed-program computer.
Digital Clock

20. Order the following languages chronologically according to their birth date.
Java, COBOL, C++, Python, Fortran, B

Fortran
COBOL
B
C++
Python
Java

21. (A) What is the closest human-readable programming language to machine code (i.e., binary numbers)?
Assembly language

21. (B) Does it need interpretation in order to become machine-comprehensible?
Yes, it needs to be assembled into machine code.

22. (A) Name the oldest high-level programming language that is still in active daily use.
FORTRAN

22. (B) Approximately how many decades is it old?
7 decades (developed in the 1950s)

23. (A) Name a second-generation programming language.
Assembly language

23. (B) Which language-generation are Fortran, C, C++, MATLAB, Python, R?
Third-generation programming languages

24. In what decades were C, C++, MATLAB, and Python created, respectively?
C: 1970s
C++: 1980s
MATLAB: 1980s
Python: 1990s

25. Name an ancestor programming language of C.
B

26. Name a programming language ancestor of C++.
C

27. Name a programming language ancestor of MATLAB and a programming language ancestor of Python.
MATLAB: Fortran
Python: ABC

28. How do you define logarithm? Explain with a simple example.
A logarithm is the inverse operation to exponentiation, meaning it determines what power a number (the base) must be raised to, in order to get another number.
3

29. Consider the following summation: S=3+6+9+…+93+96+99 . What is the value of S?
The series is an arithmetic sequence with a common difference of 3. The number of terms is 1683

30. Extra Credit: Which memory device is longer lasting: magnetic tapes or HDD (Hard-Disk Drives)? How many years approximately does each one last?
Magnetic tapes: Approximately 30 years
HDD: Approximately 3-5 years

31. Extra Credit: Can you name a fixed-program computer that existed for centuries before the invention of the first digital computer?
Abacus

32. Extra Credit: Consider the following multiplication: S=101×102×103×…×10100. What is the value of S?
200!/100!
